RICA – A Real-Time Intelligent Coding Assistant for Detecting Architectural Violations, Design-Pattern Misuse, and Business-Logic Issues During Development 
Research Proposal Document
Submitted by: H. M. G. C. A. Herath (11553)
BSc (Hons) in Software Engineering
Faculty of Computer Science
Supervisor: Mr. Eranga Thennakoon
Date of submission
09.03.202609.03.2026
09.03.2026
09.03.2026
………………………………………………………….
Table of Contents
1Introduction / Background3
2Problem Statement4
3Research Gap5
4Research Aim6
5Objectives7
6Literature Review9
6.1Intraprocedural Static Analysis9
6.2Practical Static Bug Detection9
6.3Architectural Erosion and Conformance10
6.4Design Pattern Recognition10
6.5Business Logic Vulnerabilities (BLVs)11
6.6Developer Assistance and Human Factors11
7Methodology12
7.1Data Collection12
7.2System Design12
7.3Implementation14
7.4Testing14
7.5Evaluation14
8Feasibility Analysis15
8.1Technical Feasibility15
8.2Operational Feasibility15
8.3Economic Feasibility15
8.4Schedule Feasibility16
9Project Timeline17
10Ethical Considerations18
11Expected Outcomes19
12References20
Figure
Figure 1: Simplified architecture of RICA. The semantic index and analyzers maintain a project-wide model, feeding a rule engine and optional AI reasoning. The IDE extension surfaces issues in context.14
Figure 2: Project Timeline18
Introduction / Background
Modern software systems rely on well-defined architectural patterns to manage complexity through the concept of separating concerns [1]. For example, in layered architectures the typical components include a User Interface layer, the business logic layer, and the data access layer[1]. Similarly, object-oriented design patterns (as classified in the book by Gamma et al.) provide well-defined solutions to common design problems[2]. When used correctly, design patterns can isolate the business or domain logic of the application (i.e. the code that representsthe real-world rules of the problem domain [3][4]. However, locating where and how the business logic embedded in the code is a complex problem. Static analysis tools, which analyze the source code without execution, are good at detecting syntax or simple structural issues in the code, butcannot  reason about the high level intent of the application [5][6]. In some business logic, it often spans multiple modules and workflows, requiring cross-file and cross-service reasoning to detect. For example, the problem of missing  authorization checks is a well-known business logic vulnerability that can be detected through pure data-flow analysis [5][7].
While traditional static analyzers and IDE linters excel at detecting local code issues in the code, they do not necessarily create a persistent project-wide model of the entire application or analyze how the various pieces of the application interact with each other [1][6]. For example, the Gecko Security blog reports an instance of an authentication bypass flaw in a JavaScript application, where the flaw consisted of the interaction of three different methods located in different files: individually each method was correct, but interaction between them violated the overall security policy [7]. No single-file AST scan would catch this flaw. This shows the need for advanced semantic understanding. Meanwhile, language servers and machine-learning-based code assistants are enabling more context-aware editing tools. These advances make the proposed RICA (Real-time Intelligent Coding Assistant) framework goal of maintaining an incremental semantic model of the entire Java codebase within the IDE, detecting violations of architectural or pattern constraints and business logic anomalies a timely challenge. 
Problem Statement
The present developer tools fall short along three important limitations. First, limited timing: many important errors such as architecture drifts, pattern misuses, and business rule violations are identified only after code is written, compiled, and perhaps only during late integration or QA stages. Fixing such issues late is costly and causes problems. Second, the tools are limited in scope and context. Most tools such as, IDE-based linters and offline static analysis tools, examine files or snapshots locally, and do not maintain a continuously updated, project-wide model [1][6]. As consequence, the tools miss bugs that occur only as a result of interactions among different modules. For example, a missing service-layer validation in one class that is only exercised via another class’s method. Third, the tools are limited in semantic understanding. Rule-based tools are effective at detecting syntactic patterns such as null-checks, use of API, etc. Similarly taint analysis can identify that input untrust inputs reaches a database, but it can’t verify the appropriate authorization has been applied[8]. As noted by the Gecko Security analysis notes, business-logic vulnerabilities are often based on what is absent (a missing check) rather than something present, and detecting them requires knowing what should happen in a given workflow [1][4]. In practice, this leads to rework as we implement logic only to discover that QA has problems with a missing business rule, or we accumulate architectural violations that make future work more difficult [2][8].
Research Gap
Although there are many static analysis tools and research projects available, none of them seem to fill the gap for proactive semantic reasoning at the whole-project level. SonarLint, PMD, and SpotBugs are some popular static analysis tools that are used to detect code smells and API abuse. However, none of them build and update the semantic index over the whole code base [6]. Although there are some static analysis tools such as FlowDroid for Android apps that perform context-sensitive static analysis over the whole program and are proven to be effective, such static analysis is not commonly used in live development environments [9]. However, the success of static analysis defects such as Sorald, which generates patches for SonarQube rules, is an indication that auto-fixing static defects is feasible; however, such defects are not fixed until the code is written [10]. The effectiveness of the study on architectural conformance and erosion such as DeSilva’s and Li et al. on violation symptoms [6] highlights that many architecture rule violations are not detected or are detected by manual inspection and offline checking. The effectiveness of design pattern detection such as the one done by Tsantalis et al. with graph matching is an indication that design pattern detection is feasible; however, such detection is not commonly associated with dynamic guidance[3]. 
Therefore, there is no tool available that continuously monitors code modifications, incrementally analyzes the whole Java project structure, and enforces architecture and design pattern rules while closing the logic gaps inside the IDE. RICA is intended to fill this gap with the help of the latest semantic model and both rule-based and AI-driven reasoning.
Research Aim
The goal of the research is to design, implement, and conduct an evaluation of RICA, a real-time intelligent coding assistant for Java, integrated into VS Code. RICA will analyze the code in real time as the developers type, apply known architectural patterns such as layered architectures like the model-view-controller (MVC) pattern and domain-driven design, and design patterns as templates, and apply semantic analysis to identify when business logic constraints are violated. In this research, we will identify architectural violations such as direct access to the database from the controller layer, design pattern misuse, and certain business logic errors such as authorization for state-changing methods. This will be done within the VS Code environment. The project will produce an extensible VS Code extension, a clear architectural framework for project-wide analysis. 
Objectives
To achieve this aim, the project will pursue the following objectives:
Survey and analysis: Review existing static analysis tools, architecture conformance techniques, and design pattern detection techniques to identify their strengths and weaknesses in providing real-time, cross-file reasoning capabilities [6][1]. This includes studying language server technologies and recent AI-based code assistants to understand how project wide code context is maintained.
Design of RICA architecture: Design an architecture that is modular, event-driven, and suitable to run inside VS Code. It will include an incremental Java code parser (using Java language servers), symbol index, architecture rule checker, data flow analyzer (using an IFDS-based system to compute call graphs and data-flow graphs over the entire code base [9][2]), business logic rule engine, and an optional AI-based system to resolve ambiguities. It will follow software architecture design patterns like MVC, Hexagonal architecture, etc.
Prototype implementation: Implement the core RICA engine in Java and the VS Code extension in TypeScript. It will include libraries to maintain ASTs and symbol tables over the entire code base. It will include design pattern detection using graph-based methods such as the approach proposed by Tsantalis[3]. It will include data flow analysis using an IFDS-based system to compute call graphs and taint flows over the code base. It will include rule detection using high-level policies like “services should not be called from UI classes without validation.”
Business-logic analysis: Develop a focused small set of BLV detectors that use pattern matching and selective dataflow analysis to detect issues such as missing permission checks, direct database written in controllers. If the effectiveness of this is limited by the pattern-based approach, RICA could optionally provide relevant code context and query an AI service (e.g., an LLM running on the developer’s machine) to provide suggestions about potential issues. All such queries and responses logged for audit.
IDE integration and UI: RICA should integrate with VS Code by creating an extension that listens to changes and provides inline warnings, explanations and suggestions. For example, RICA could underline a controller method that performs a DB write from the controller and suggest inserting a stub for the missing permission check. The UI should follow best practices to minimize disruption to the development workflow and clearly distinguish RICA suggestions from other linter messages.
Evaluation: RICA should provide benchmarks to measure its effectiveness. Benchmarks should include synthetic datasets with small Java projects with seeded architecture and logic flaws along with some open-source projects.
Literature Review
This section outlines the foundational research underpinning RICA, organized by relevant areas:
Intraprocedural Static Analysis
Reps et al. have shown that many interprocedural dataflow problems can be viewed as graph reachability problems, allowing precise whole-program static analysis[13]. The IFDS framework is used in state-of-the-art static analyzers, implying that RICA’s cross-file analysis engine could be precise and scalable if built upon such principles. FlowDroid is an example of this: by utilizing Android lifecycle models and context/flow/field sensitivity, it achieved high precision in detecting data leaks [12]. Although FlowDroid is specific to Android, RICA is inspired by the advanced analysis capabilities that provided by FlowDroid. The idea is that advanced analysis is possible, e.g., FlowDroid has shown that modeling context and lifecycle behavior can achieve 93% recall and 86% precision on benchmark datasets [12]. RICA could utilize context sensitivity to reduce false positives by using symbol tables and ASTs.
Practical Static Bug Detection
Research by David Hovemeyer and William Pugh on the tool FindBugs showed that implementing simple detectors for bug patterns is effective in detecting many real bugs in Java code[14]. Although it is an old paper, its findings remain relevant that “even expert-written code contains obvious bugs” and “simple detectors can be effective.” Similarly, tools such as PMD and SpotBugs, include many rules that detect common programming mistakes. This shows that rule-based detectors are a practical approach to finding many common bugs. Another recent paper by Etemadi et al. in 2021, titled Sorald, used automatic fixing of static code analysis violations reported by SonarQube. This shows that many static code analysis findings can be mapped to fix patterns. However, even the FindBugs analysis approach is file-based in their analysis. RICA will extend this by using an interprocedural engine. It will use these bug patterns in the rule engine but across call chains and modules rather than within one file.
Architectural Erosion and Conformance
Software architecture is a crucial aspect of large software systems [15]. The survey by Nirosh De Silva and Balasubramaniam indicates that violations of architectural principles accumulate over time, a phenomenon known as architectural erosion. Also, existing techniques can only partially solve this problem[2]. They argue that no single strategy, like design enforcement or code architecture linkage, is fully effective in preventing architectural erosion. There is a need for early detection of architectural problems. Specifically, as mentioned by Li et al. (2023), stated that “current static analysis tools detect only a limited number of architectural violations, cannot detect architectural intent [6]” This motivates RICA’s purpose goal of integrating architecture rules, like layer constraints, into a live development tool. RICA alerts the developer immediately when a rule is violated, like when a cycle is introduced in the dependency graph or when a service layer is bypassed.
Design Pattern Recognition
Design patterns organize code, and research literature suggests that detecting them can help to understand[3]. Tsantalis et al. use graphs to represent both the system and the design pattern and use graph similarity algorithms to identify instances of the pattern[3]. This can even identify variant implementations of the pattern. This can be useful for RICA because it can recognize that a set of classes implements a particular pattern, such as a Singleton or Factory, and thus use this to identify relevant pattern-specific constraints. For example, if a class is recognized as an MVC pattern “Controller” type, RICA could enforce that it only calls service-layer code and not directly accesses the database. Rica will combine structural rules with semantic cues to improve pattern recognition. The literature also indicates that recognizing design patterns can be non-trivial because of the many variations of each pattern[3].
Business Logic Vulnerabilities (BLVs)
BLVs represent “logic flaws that violate business rules” (i.e., logic that enables an unauthorized refund)[4]. Unlike injection flaws, BLVs are contextual and semantic. OWASP states that these vulnerabilities “often don’t get detected by automated tools” [12]. In a recent survey on BLVs, Metin et al. (2025) highlight that “BLVs arises from incorrect of incomplete rather than simple coding mistakes”[4]. They cite that OWASP states that “it is generally not possible to automate the detection of BLVs without human understanding” [12]. In fact, the detection of BLVs is usually done manually. This literature is relevant to RICA’s goal to target a limited set of BLVs that can be statically checked. For instance, we might target the absence of authorization checks before critical actions. This will be possible by combining the available architecture or pattern context with the dataflow traces. This is similar to the approach adopted in frameworks such as ANOTA [4], which relies on annotations to identify expected security checks. RICA will rely on the explicit definition of these domain-specific rules instead of inferring them from examples.
Developer Assistance and Human Factors
Existing research has already demonstrated the significant effect of suggestion delivery on acceptance. A study of the Mylyn project, which provides a context-aware task-focused interface for the Eclipse IDE, has already demonstrated the benefits of tailoring the developer environment based on the developer's task. More recently, the effectiveness of AI-driven coding assistants such as GitHub Copilot has been studied. Although Copilot has been demonstrated to allow the developer to produce code at a faster rate using certain metrics [16], the developer must still carefully examine the suggestions produced by the tool, as the tool currently lacks deep domain expertise [17]. Specifically, the study by Stray et al. (2025) has already demonstrated that the suggestions produced by Copilot, while applicable in a generic suggestion, must still be carefully examined by the developer when addressing context-sensitive logic [17]. RICA will be designed in accordance with existing UI design guidelines for developer interruption. Specifically, RICA will provide inline diagnostics and quick-fix suggestions, similar to compiler errors or linter warnings. Additionally, RICA will include a dashboard that allows the developer to visualize architectural drift over time, inspired by "trend metrics" from existing conformance research.
In summary, the literature shows that: (a) precise interprocedural analysis is technically viable [9]; (b) simple static detectors can find many bugs but miss semantic errors[14]; (c) architecture patterns are important but commonly violated undetected [2][6]; (d) BLVs are expensive and labor-intensive today [12]; and (e) developer tools must strike a balance between proactivity and usability. RICA synthesizes these insights by extending IFDS-style analysis [13] with project-wide indexing (e.g., language servers), architecture/pattern rule encoding, and integration with the IDE.
Methodology
Data Collection
We will create a diverse benchmark suite. This will involve synthetic small Java projects (modeled after different domains such as banking or e-commerce) in which we will intentionally introduce known issues, such as a controller that has no authentication check, a service that writes directly to the database, etc. We will also consider several open-source Java applications from GitHub that have layered architecture (such as Spring applications). For the baseline, we will use existing tools such as SonarLint in connected mode, PMD, and SpotBugs on the same code to compare what issues RICA detects that other tools miss.
System Design
At the core of RICA's architecture will be a modular event-driven pipeline (Fig. 1). At the very bottom of this stack, we will have the Incremental Parser & Symbol Index. This will be implemented using the Java language server protocol or Eclipse JDT. This will then provide the most recent ASTs and symbol tables for all files. Next is the Cross-File Dataflow Analyzer. This will process the interprocedural call graph and key data flows, inspired by IFDSstyle reachability analysis. This will then allow RICA to ask questions such as "where do user IDs flow?" While it is being processed, the Pattern & Architecture Rule Engine will be running in parallel and will apply its rule set. These rules will include architectural constraintsand pattern expectations ("Singletons have private constructors") [3][2].Any violationlikewill be reported. Above these, there is a Business Logic Validator(BLV) thatapplies to a selected set of BLV detectors, it might check all methods changing the state either call an authorize() function or check user.isManager().For patterns that are not fully matched or are partially correct, RICA will use aReasoning Module, which will gather relevant code details, method definitions and their call sequences, and then use a small decision Model to come up with a human-readable suggestion, response, and log it for review purposes.
The IDE extension layer (VS Code plugin) resides on top of this analysis engine, listening for edits such as file saves or key presses. Edits are channeled through the pipeline via an Event Orchestrator. In the editor, you can expect squiggles and tool tips for warnings, as well as quick fixes (e.g., “Add authorization check here”). A project-level dashboard can be accessed via a VS Code view, summarizing open violations and erosion metrics for architects to identify trends.
Figure 1: Simplified architecture of RICA. The semantic index and analyzers maintain a project-wide model, feeding a rule engine and optional AI reasoning. 
Implementation
The core RICA engine will be implemented in Java. Existing libraries for parsing and analysis will be utilized; for example, JavaParser or Spoon for AST generation, and JGraphT or similar libraries for graph manipulation. The semantic index will utilize similar approaches to those of language servers for resolving symbols in packages. The event-driven orchestrator might utilize in-process queues or Reactive Streams for fast incremental updates. The business logic rules will utilize DSL rules or code, depending on the complexity of the rules. For AI reasoning, if utilized, a local LLM (for example, a smaller open-source one) or an API might be employed. The VS Code extension will be implemented in TypeScript using the VS Code Extension API, communicating with the Java core (possibly via Language Server or RPC). All tools for development (Java, VS Code, etc.) are mature and free, thus feasibility is ensured.
Testing
We plan to thoroughly test RICA at different levels: we will write unit tests for parser utilities, analysis utilities, pattern matching utilities, and each rule checker individually. We will write integration tests for RICA by simulating different editing scenarios: for instance, we can programmatically modify a piece of code and make sure that RICA reports the expected diagnostics for this change. We will test RICA’s performance by analyzing a few medium-sized Java projects (thousands of lines). We expect RICA’s analysis latency to be within one second after each change in the code. We will write system tests for RICA by utilizing all the collected datasets: we will run RICA on a set of projects with known flaws and make sure RICA reports all expected violations. We will compare RICA’s output with a few other tools (for instance, we will make sure RICA reports logic errors that SonarLint failed to report). We will perform a small user study by letting a few developers work with RICA: this will help us identify UI bugs and make sure RICA’s suggestions are presented in a helpful way.
Evaluation
RICA will be evaluated on technical accuracy.To evaluate the accuracy of RICA, precision, and recall of categories of issues, such as architecture, patterns, and BLVs, are calculated over the labeled benchmark datasets. To measure the reduction of lead time, we plan to identify the commits in the version history of the repository, which introduced flaws, and whether RICA would have detected the flaw at the time of the commit, compared to when the flaw was detected by the CI/SAST tool. To measure the noise, we plan to measure the false positive rates of the tool, which will be tuned over time. To measure the performance of the tool, we plan to measure the latency per edit operation of the tool on a representative platform.
Feasibility Analysis
Technical Feasibility
All the core components are based on mature technology. Java AST parsers like JavaParser and Spoon, as well as the VS Code Java Language Server, provide full semantic information (types, call graphs) [18]. Efficient algorithms for data flow graphs (IFDS, IDE) are implemented in open-source analyzers, and we are certain that our cross-file data flow can be built with reasonable resources. The reliance on existing rule engines or DSLs helps reduce implementation risks. Although the optional AI component is based on existing models, RICA’s design makes it an "advisory" component, not on the critical path.
Operational Feasibility
RICA is designed to be run locally by developers, who need only a standard workstation or laptop to run it. RICA works directly with a developer’s existing IDE (VS Code) without requiring changes to be made to the building infrastructure. We’re focusing on Java as a starting point because it’s a more bounded scope. By providing documentation and a set of default rules set, we can minimize training needs. RICA’s ability to identify issues as the code is typed shifts left instead of making developers’ lives more difficult later. We’re committed to making sure that we’re using AI in a transparent fashion: RICA will clearly identify suggestions generated by AI and will never commit changes automatically.
Economic Feasibility
RICA’s development is based on open-source tools and libraries, which means there is no cost related to software licensing. There is no need for any special hardware; if an LLM is used, it is likely to be a small model or a cloud API. However, it is also possible to design RICA to not require cloud services if the budget is too tight. The costs, in this case, will be related to the developer’s time. The benefits can be significant since the detection of even a few critical issues can lead to significant savings in debugging and maintenance costs, as discussed by DeSilva et al. in the cost of erosion [15].
Schedule Feasibility
We estimated that the project can be completed within 18–20-week timeline. The initial phase will focus on literature study and data collection. In the middle phase, the focus will be on the implementation of the analysis engine and the main detectors. In the latter phase, the focus will be on integrating the VS Code UI and the refinement of the BLV checks. The final phase will be dedicated to the testing and evaluation phase, as well as the writing phase. As can be seen, the plan is ambitious, yet it is doable as an undergraduate project with dedication and commitment.
Project Timeline
Figure 2: Project Timeline
Ethical Considerations
RICA is a developer tool that poses minimal ethical issues since it does not involve any personal data processing; rather, the analysis is based on source code alone. Informed consent is required from the test subjects, and the feedback will be anonymous in nature. No proprietary code will be collected or shared without explicit permission from owners. If Ai is used, no code or developer input will be sent to any third party without the user’s consent. The results obtained from the application of RICA will be advisory in nature, and we will clearly state that false positives and false negatives can occur; however, the developer has the responsibility to verify the results obtained from the application of RICA. In terms of bias, the datasets used for the evaluation will be from multiple application domains and coding styles, such that we do not train RICA on any specific type of code. The code samples and violations obtained during the experiment will be stored securely such that access is granted to the research team alone.
We follow the guidelines set by the research community to conduct our research with integrity and provide the required citations as credit, and we will be releasing the code for RICA as open source so that it can be audited by others as well.
Expected Outcomes
An operational prototype of the RICA system will consist of a Java analysis engine and a Visual Studio Code extension, intended to identify architecture violations, pattern misuses, and a some set of business logic violations in real time, during the development process.
The results of the empirical evaluation will include metrics that illustrate the precision, recall, and lead-time improvement, showing the quantity of logic errors identified by the RICA system in comparison with other tools.
The documentation will include a set of rules and design patterns, explaining the architecture constraints and representative BLV patterns implemented, along with certain “quick fix” transformations.
In conclusion, the RICA system will offer both practical and theoretical contributions, in the form of the prototype, rules, and results, and also certain knowledge contributions, in the form of the study on the real-time semantic analysis during the development process in an integrated development environment.
Although only a portion of the BLV patterns is successfully identified, the development of a functioning architecture analysis tool is a considerable step toward better assistance in design integrity verification.
.
References
[1]T. Reps, S. Horwitz, and M. Sagiv, “Precise interprocedural dataflow analysis via graph reachability,” in Conference Record of the Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages, ACM, 1995, pp. 49–61. doi: 10.1145/199448.199462.
[2]S. Arzt et al., “FlowDroid,” ACM SIGPLAN Notices, vol. 49, pp. 259–269, Jun. 2014, doi: 10.1145/2666356.2594299.
[3]D. Hovemeyer and W. Pugh, “Finding bugs is easy,” in Proceedings of the Conference on Object-Oriented Programming Systems, Languages, and Applications, OOPSLA, 2004, pp. 132–135. doi: 10.1145/1028664.1028717.
[4]K. Etemadi et al., “Sorald: Automatic Patch Suggestions for SonarQube Static Analysis Violations,” https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.12033. Accessed: Mar. 09, 2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.12033
[5]R. Just, D. Jalali, and M. D. Ernst, “Defects4J: A database of existing faults to enable controlled testing studies for Java programs,” in 2014 International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, ISSTA 2014 - Proceedings, Association for Computing Machinery, Jul. 2014, pp. 437–440. doi: 10.1145/2610384.2628055.
[6]L. De Silva and D. Balasubramaniam, “Controlling software architecture erosion: A survey,” Journal of Systems and Software, vol. 85, pp. 132–151, Jan. 2012, doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2011.07.036.
[7]N. Tsantalis, A. Chatzigeorgiou, G. Stephanides, and S. T. Halkidis, “Design pattern detection using similarity scoring,” IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 32, pp. 896–909, Nov. 2006, doi: 10.1109/TSE.2006.112.
[8]G. Erich, H. Richard, J. Ralph, and V. John, “Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software,” Addison-Wesley, 1994.
[9]M. Fowler and K. Beck, “Refactoring Improving the Design of Existing Code,” https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoring.html.
[10]L. Bass, P. Clements, and R. Kazman, “Software Architecture in Practice:  | Guide books | ACM Digital Library,” https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/2392670.
[11]M. Alqaradaghi, G. Morseorcid, and T. Kozsik, “Detecting security vulnerabilities with static analysis-A case study,” Pollack Periodica, vol. 17, pp. 1–7, 2022, doi: 10.1556/606.2021.00454.
[12]N. Nguyen and S. Nadi, “An Empirical Evaluation of GitHub Copilot’s Code Suggestions,” in Proceedings - 2022 Mining Software Repositories Conference, MSR 2022, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., Oct. 2022, pp. 1–5. doi: 10.1145/3524842.3528470. 
[13]B. Yetiştiren, I. Özsoy, M. Ayerdem, and E. Tüzün, “Evaluating the Code Quality of AI-Assisted Code Generation Tools: An Empirical Study on GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and ChatGPT,” Oct. 2023.
[14]B. Metin, M. Wynn, A. Tunalı, and Y. Kepir, “Business Logic Vulnerabilities in the Digital Era: A Detection Framework Using Artificial Intelligence,” Information (Switzerland), vol. 16, Jul. 2025, doi: 10.3390/info16070585.
[15]V. Stray, E. G. Brandtzæg, V. T. Wivestad, A. Barbala, and N. B. Moe, “Developer Productivity With and Without GitHub Copilot: A Longitudinal Mixed-Methods Case Study,” in 59th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, arxiv, 2025.
[16]Eric. Evans, Domain-driven design : tackling complexity in the heart of software. Addison-Wesley, 2007.
[17]OWASP Foundation, “OWASP Top 10 for Business Logic Abuse,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://owasp.org/www-project-top-10-for-business-logic-abuse/ .
[18]OWASP Foundation, “OWASP Web Security Testing Guide (WSTG) 4.2,” 2022. [Online]. Available: https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/ (see sections on business logic)
